[ introduction ]

caAERS is used to report adverse events that occur during clinical trials.  Once you have added the adverse events to the selected course or cycle and caAERS determines the appropriate expedited reports to submit, you must supply additional information needed to complete the reports.  This session describes that process.

[ reporter ]

The first step is to enter the contact information for the person reporting the adverse event and the treating physician.  These individuals can be selected from drop-down menus, which will fill in the details for you.

Select Paul Baumgartner as the Reporter.

Next, select Site Physician as the Treating Physician.

Finally, click Save and Continue to bring us to the next page.

[ adverse events ]

You will notice a check mark appeared next to the Reporter step in the grey task bar towards the top of the page.  Furthermore, you can also see yellow asterisks next to the steps that are required.  Finally, you will also see that there is already a check mark next to Step 2: Adverse Events, which is the step that we currently are on.  As I scroll down the page, you can see that these are the details that we already entered in the previous lesson.  Click Save and Continue to move to the next screen.

[ describe event ]

Describing the event is one of the most critical sections of the report.  You must provide detailed information about the event including the presentation of the event, the treatment of the event, clinical findings, and the timing of the event in relation to study interventions. The goal is to be as complete as possible.  I will enter into the description field: "Nausea followed by severe vomiting.  Hospitalization for 24 hours and TPN indicated."  I will mark the present status as recovered, the date of recovery as two days after the adverse event began, and that the subject has not been retreated.  Please click Save and Continue to navigate to the next screen.

[ course ]

If you recall from the previous lesson, we already entered the details of the Course.  However, we have an opportunity to review and make modifications.  Please click Save and Continue.

[ study interventions ]

On the next screen, we must enter the study agents.  The dose and unit of measurement are required, while the rest of the fields are optional.

Please select Alvocidib from the study agent list.

I'll enter the dose of 100.

You select mg for milligrams from the unit of measure list.

I'll enter the date last administered.  Please click Save and Continue.

[ subject details ]

The Subject Details page contains several sections regarding the subject's relevant medical history.  It is necessary that you verify all information that already exists on this page and make any necessary changes or additions.

I will enter the height and weight as 160 centimeters and 56 kilograms.  Notice that the body surface area is automatically calculated for us.  I verified that the disease information is correct.  However, the metastatic disease sites are incorrect.  Only the lymph node should be listed.  Please click the red trash icon to remove adrenal gland.

The pre-existing conditions and concomitant medications are both correct.  However, chemotherapy should not be listed as a prior therapy.  Please click the red trash icon to remove chemotherapy.

Now click Save and Continue to bring us to the next screen.

[ other causes ]

This screen allows you to enter information regarding other circumstances that might have been related to the event or contributed to the event being reported.  Please remove hypertension by clicking the red x.

Now click Save and Continue.

[ labs ]

This page allows you to enter any lab tests that are relevant to the adverse event.  Since there are none for this case, please click Save and Continue to bring us to the next screen.

[ attribution ]

The attribution screen allows you to attribute the level of relatedness to each potential cause.

Let's attribute the vomiting event first.  For disease, select unlikely.

For study agent, select possible.

For concomitant medication, select unlikely.

Now, let's attribute the nausea.  For disease, select unlikely.

For study agent, select probable.

Finally, for concomitant medication, select unlikely.

Please click Save and Continue.

[ additional info ]

This screen allows you to select any additional information to include with the expedited report, such as an autopsy report or discharge summary.  Since we have no additional information to include, please click Save and Continue.

[ review and submit ]

The review and submit screen allows us to make any additional changes to the report, as well as preview the report.  You can access the preview functionality by clicking the Actions button.  Furthermore, caAERS will provide notifications of any missing data that is necessary to complete the report.  In this case, we are notified that a physician sign-off is necessary before continuing.  Please click the check box towards the top to certify that the report has been reviewed and approved by a physician.

Now the report is ready to be submitted.  Click the submit action to continue.

[ submitter ]

We are now in the final workflow to submit the created report.  The first screen let's us enter different submitter details from the reporter.  In this case, both are the same, so please click Save and Continue.

[ recipients ]

This screen allows us to add additional recipients of the report.  You could enter emails in the Cc field.  However, we do not have any additional recipients, so please click the Submit button to submit the report. 

[ submission status ]

The final screen shows us the status of our submitted report.  From here, we can also export the report to a variety of formats.  We can check back to this screen later to determine whether the report submitted to AdEERS successfully.

[ submission status recheck ] 

It has been a couple minutes, and we have checked back to see if the status of our submission has changed.  And, it indeed has.  The information was saved successfully, and the submission went through without a problem.  We can click view server response to get further details for debugging purposes.

[ conclusion ]

That concludes the caAERS AE Coordinator creating and submitting an expedited report tutorial.  In this session, you learned how to create an expedited report from an already entered adverse event, as well as submit that report.  In the upcoming lessons, you will learn how to edit and amend an adverse event report.